# CS340
A repository of work for my CS340 SNHU course
* How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I try to add comments throughout the code for anything that isn't extremely obvious what it does to make sure anyone else could understand how the program works. I also try to make my code as minimal as possible, to limit how much may need to be changed at a future date, which also limits how many places there are for problems to arise. One key thing I learned is that when it comes to adaptability, a return statement is better than a print statement. Because of the way my CRUD module is written, if anyone wanted to reuse the program they should only need to change some file pathing, and of course their mongo user information, database name and collection. 

* How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

In this situation, it mainly depends on what is meant by problem. When it comes to how I being to write a program, I try to break it down into smaller parts. If a program needs to have functionality to do 5 different things, for example, I start with only focusing on one at a time. If one function needs to use another to work, I focus on the stand-alone functions first. When it comes to solving an actual problem, I do a traceback. Figure out what the error actually is, and then pore over the various lines of code that have to do with that to see if there is an easy issue to fix, like a syntax issue. I also look at the IDE's display of the error to try to gather more information on what the problem is. If all else fails, I use Google to see if anyone else knows what could be causing the problem and how to fix it.

*What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists work with computer software and hardware to create solutions for people. Whether it is designing software to allow a student to write a paper for school, setting up a system for a company to find suitable dog candidates for training in search and rescue, or even something as simple as creating a website for people to share recipes. It matters because communication and speed are integral parts of today's society. Yes, that student could handwrite their paper, or use a typewriter, but a computer system will get the job done faster and more reliably. People could share recipes by word of mouth or through letters, or even handing them out in person, but many more people will be reached with a website. And for companies like Grazioso Salvare, they could put out phone calls to various animal shelters in their area, or go visit in person, but that takes a lot of time and man power to accomplish, and any new information would be delayed getting to them. Having direct access to a constantly updating database of animals that can be easily searched as needed greatly increases the productivity of the company, and as they deal mainly with training dogs for search and rescue operations, the less time spent looking for candidates, the more time can be spent gathering the animals and training them.
